## Plans

Last year I made a blog documenting my plans for how to develop as a person. These were mostly technical. This year, seeing my behaviour go weird as I take more responsibility, I'd like to focus on moral growth in preparation for leadership.

I successfully lived most of my plans, and this year I have a job which is stretching me technically. There is still work to do on technical growth, and I am re-listing the important tenets of that here.

What makes up the ability to effectively act?
- Powerful meta-thinking
- Quick and comfortable micro-thinking
- Familiarity with the domain
- Motivation
- Wise and strong teachers
- Aware and open advisors
- Effective communication
- Exposure to new stimuli (increase creativity and see occluded doors)
- Focus and drive to do one thing for a while
- Experience having done and seen things before
- An understanding of the consequences of one's actions
- An unconscious instinct to act properly morally
- The system must support the action you are trying to take
- Stay sane

### Powerful meta-thinking
Work provides a lot of this element, so I think I will grow either way here.
- Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs (Wizard Book)

### Quick and comfortable micro-thinking
- Zetamac
- Other maths exercises e.g. derivatives and integrals
- Typing exercises - a consistent keyboard?
- Guitar ear training website
- Transcription of hard songs, especially parts on different instruments

### Familiarity with the domain
- Small programming projects
- Reading open source code
- Learning songs on guitar
- Play music with people
- Find way to give presentations
- Improve Chinese

### Motivation
- Rest on weekends
- Make friends
- Play music with people
- Get lessons from someone I admire (guitar)
- Exercise body - running, climbing

### Wise and strong teachers
- Get lessons from someone I admire (guitar)
- Mentor for programming
- Mentor for physics
- Hang out with the pastor
- Go to a conference

### Aware and open advisors
- Siblings
- Extended family
- Work colleagues
- Mars boy
- Mo

### Effective communication
- Write blog posts
- Write about maths
- Read good books 
- Find way to give talks - regular thing at work?

### Exposure to new stimuli
This is covered well by work too, at the moment
- Start getting Chinese language input
- Learn Lisp (SICP book)
- Go to a lecture
- Youtube? maybe alternative
- Ground News
- Meet new people
- Make friends
- Follow threads of other peoples' hobbies
- Other books - continue branching out
- Scientific papers

### Focus and drive to do one thing for a while
- Fix phone usage - minimalist phone? No social media?
- Do things with buddies

### Experience having done and seen things before
- Listen to your foreign contacts, and go with them
- Learn to drive
- Travel
- Start getting Chinese language input
- Follow threads of other peoples' hobbies

### An understanding of the consequences of one's actions
- Pray for your friends? At least worry about them
- Help people (family?) accomplish their long term goals
- Listen to people carefully
- Visit grandparents

### An unconscious instinct to act properly morally
- Pick up rubbish when you see it
- Spend time with suffering people
- Be generous
- Catch mistakes as early as you can
- Understand where your nature is and how to move it forwards

### The system must support the action you are trying to take
- Talk to business people
- Research government

### Stay sane
- Get a house
- Watch your health
- Meet with friends
- Go on holiday
- Take weekends off
- Running
- Climbing
- Watch Films/TV with family
- Read a book at night
- Meditate
- Do origami
- Play a lot of guitar
- Play even more guitar
- Crack a joke
- Flirt with a girl (risky)
