## Plans

I have a few aims on the year scale that would be worth strategising for my life:

What makes up the ability to effectively act?
- Powerful meta-thinking
- Quick and comfortable micro-thinking
- Familiarity with the domain
- Motivation
- Wise and strong teachers
- Aware and open advisors
- Effective communication
- Exposure to new stimuli (increase creativity and see occluded doors)
- Stay sane

### Powerful meta-thinking
- Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs (Wizard Book)
- Brilliant.org
- Learn topology
- Dual n-back (https://dualn-back.com/)

### Quick and comfortable micro-thinking
- Leetcode?
- Zetamac
- Other maths exercises e.g. derivatives and integrals
- Guitar ear training website

### Familiarity with the domain
- Small programming projects e.g. in Haskell, Rust, Python, Go, HTML/CSS/TS
- Blender practice
- Reading open source code
- Learning songs on guitar

### Motivation
- Rest on weekends
- Exercise different areas in the evenings in the day
- Make friends (Du, Randy, Mo, etc..)
- Play music with people
- Get lessons from someone I admire (guitar)
- Exercise body - running
- Gym

### Wise and strong teachers
- Get lessons from someone I admire (guitar)
- Mentor for programming
- Mentor for science?
- Go to a conference

### Aware and open advisors
- FP Discord (very open, somewhat aware)
- Work colleagues
- Mars boy
- Go to a conference

### Effective communication
- Write blog posts
- Find way to give talks?
- Find way to teach?
- Interview practice

### Exposure to new stimuli
- Learn Lisp (SICP book)
- Learn topology
- Learn classical mechanics by variational calculus (SICM book)
- Go to a conference
- Go to a lecture
- Pytest book
- Youtube? maybe alternative - Hacker News?
- Meet new people
- Make friends
- Dostoevsky
- Other books
- Scientific papers? Perhaps attach to work?

### Stay sane
- Meet with friends
- Go on holiday
- Take weekends off
- Gym
- Running
- Watch Films/TV with family
- Meditate
- Do origami
- Play a lot of guitar
- Crack a joke