## Plans

For the last 2 years I've written down plans for how to develop as a person. I'm going to change the format from focusing primarily on effectiveness to accomplishing all my life goals. Effectiveness is nothing if character is feeble - and it's easy not to notice things if you get too introspective.

Who do I want to be?
- Loved
- Loving
- In love
- Independent
- Resistant to scratches
- Wise
- Generous
- Someone with deep friendships
- Understands the significance and insignificance of his work
- Principled where it matters
- Good to be around
- Healthy
- Able to move easily in his body
- Honest
- Well rested
- Clear
- Clean and tidy enough
- Plays music (nicely!)
- Ready to take risks for the sake of learning
- Interesting
- Sane

### Loved
I don't have so much control over this, other than not alienating people who love me for no reason, which I have done a bit this year. I think learning to communicate shortly and quickly and setting reminders to action things will help a lot with this - talk first, action later (or even action earlier if it's easy).

### Loving
Part of this is being well-rested, and giving people full attention when I'm speaking to them, rather than pretending to pay attention. Part of this is keeping on paying attention to where I put my boundaries with different people. Part of this is just caring properly for the people who I've brought into that inner circle, by devoting time to seeing them - this is easier to do by merging friendship groups. But also I just need to get better at the basics - why haven't I been to the pub with Garry?

### In love
I expect I just need to expose myself to more people - then I'll figure out the next step! I think making a Hinge is an incredibly easy way to do this - I just need a basic profile picture, and to overthink things like this less. Just ask people out to non-dates to get to know them! That's a normal thing to do! It won't necessarily be easy finding people who are in my pool (unless I think I'm actually capable of compromising sensibly without resenting someone), so I might need to think about how to expand my circle - the fact that I live with Izzy should make this a lot easier.

There's probably a shit ton of work I'll have to do on being a good lover which I've delayed for years. Hopefully it mostly comes down to listening and being fun - might have to do some googling on what romantic means... but that might be fun. Good thing I have a good job so I don't need to worry about flower money.

### Independent
I've moved out, I need to finish learning to drive (which is in happy progress), need to figure out how to set boundaries at work like an adult whilst still being unafraid to ask for help, and need to figure out what it means to be an adult - more hosting and suggesting events rather than waiting for others maybe? I need to organise that housewarming - maybe I should make a reminder for it!

### Resistant to scratches
Not really any idea how I work on this. Part of it's about being secure in myself... not worrying too much about being liked is the main part there I think. The other part is not reacting too quickly and explosively (which competes a bit with taking risks).

### Wise
It'd be good to keep reading - I'm looking forward to chatting about Fear and Trembling with James Tomison once I've read it. I think meditating and journalling promote growth here too.

### Generous
Fairly simple on the face of it. I should probably give away all the money that comes in from RSUs when it arrives tomorrow. The thing I did with Ian in the pub was probably weird and I probably shouldn't do it again. That's money. I think getting pretty presents for people is kind of fun - I could maybe get something nice for Ian considering it was his birthday and christmas recently and we skipped Six by Nico. Maybe something space themed could be cool. Anyway... more time devoted to thinking about this!

### Someone with deep friendships
Deep friendships means fewer friendships with proper time devoted to them. It also means spending time that's not shallow. Sticking around after climbing sessions even if I'll be a bit sleepy the day after (could WFH for this). Keeping up walk 'n' talk calls with Arman and James is vital. Living with Izzy will, I hope, give me one of these for free too, which is great.

### Understands the significance and insignificance of his work
I think working from home 1 day a week and just insulating myself from the world on that day. I also think just being a little less serious and embracing my youth a little more will help me here. Being strict about leaving on time, and taking regular holidays, too.

### Principled where it matters
This is a hard one to enforce (and I spent 2025 trying to refine it). I think I need to keep on my current track, whilst regularly asking for feedback on how I'm doing and having deep conversations with people who love me to expose hypocrisy.

### Good to be around
I think getting good sleep is the name of the game here. Exercising regularly feeds directly into that. I'm writing this at 00:51 which is hypocrisy!

### Healthy
### Able to move easily in his body
### Honest
### Well rested
### Clear
### Clean and tidy enough
### Plays music (nicely!)
### Ready to take risks for the sake of learning
### Interesting
### Sane
